[img1]: https://github.com/genzokun/GHfiles/blob/master/super-memo/1.png?raw=true

[img2]:https://github.com/genzokun/GHfiles/blob/master/super-memo/2.png?raw=true

[img3]:
https://github.com/genzokun/GHfiles/blob/master/super-memo/3.png?raw=true

[img4]:https://github.com/genzokun/GHfiles/blob/master/super-memo/4.png?raw=true

[img5]:
https://github.com/genzokun/GHfiles/blob/master/super-memo/5.png?raw=true

# SUPER MEMO

An Arduino + Processing videogame where the user has to repeat random color combinations.

## Introduction
Super Memo is a memory game where the user will face five different levels, which will have to prove his/her skills when it comes to remembering color patterns. With only three lives you must be able to reach the end of the game.

## Technology

The game has been programmed in Arduino for internal operation, as well as the command of control to play. Parallel processing has been used to program the user interface, showing on screen all the graphics that are needed to play.

In addition, a remote control of the Super Nintendo (Super Famicom) console has been connected so that the user interact with the program and can play the game.

The SNESuino library has been used http://bit.ly/2sn3Ib0 which acts as a connection bridge between the Arduino board and the controller (or joystick) of the Super Nintendo console of the 90s. To use it, the file SNESpad.zip has been imported as a library and has been included in the code with the next line.

```
#include <SNESpad.h>
```

The library interprets the data received through the pad (or command) that is transferred to the Arduino board. The scheme of the control pins is as follows:

```
(1) +5V
(2) CLOCK
(3) STROBE
(4) DATA
(5) NC (not in use)
(6) NC (not in use)
(7) GND
```
Through the pin number 4 of the control, the peripheral sends the data of the buttons to the board, thus, Arduino can interpret which buttons are being pressed.

In addition, the library encodes these data with zeros and one; 0 being the value to define a pulsed beam and 1 for when it is not.

## UX

The Arduino board is connected to the controller and the breadboard. In addition, an RGB LED has been placed so that the user can see what is happening.

This LED interprets the data received from the command that the user sends to the board. If the user presses any color button (red, green, yellow or blue) the LED will light depending on the button pressed.

In the same scenario, if the CPU generates a new combination of buttons, the LED will turn on the color of the button "pressed" by the machine, thus showing the user the combination to be repeated next.

After writing a combination of colors by the user, if this is correct, the LED will show 3 times the green color consecutively. Otherwise, the LED will show 3 times the red color.

There are two more features that are:

```
STRAT THE GAME
If user presses the START button on the remote, the game will start at level 1.

Turn off the LED
If the user presses the SELECT button on the remote, the LED will turn off.
```

### Processing

All the graphic interface of Super Memo is generated through this sofwtare, which creates the elements on the screen depending on the state in which the game is located.

```
Beginning
```
![img1]

On the home screen, the user has to press the START button on the remote to start the game

```
Loading Screen
```

![img2]

This loading screen is used to synchronize the Arduino with the Processing since Processing takes a little time to render the elements and this causes Arduino to start generating the combination before Processing can capture the data.

Through delay() statements and messages in the serial port console, we can synchronize both programs.

```
Game Screen
```

![img3]

On this screen the player can see the combination generated by the CPU and then the one generated by the user. The colored buttons light depending on which has been pressed.

Finally, when the user has entered their combination, the system shows the user if their combination has been successful. For this, Processing turns on 3 consecutive times the green button in case it has been successful; otherwise, the red button will light up 3 consecutive times.

In case the player has completed the 5 screens successfully, the system will display the end of game screen with a message "You Win!"

![img5]

```
End Game Screen
```

If, on the other hand, the user has run out of lives, Processing will show the GAME OVER screen.

![img4]

## Circuitry

Super Memo uses a series of connection on the Arduino board for everything to work properly. In addition, as it is played with a pad, it has to be connected to the board for the user to interact with the program.

## Connected components

#RGB LED

This component consists of 4 connections to the Arduino board:

- Red color&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -> pin 11
- Earth&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -> GND
- Green Color&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -> pin 9
- Blue Color&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; -> pin 10

Its function is to show the user the combination of the CPU and his own while they are being created.

With the SNES pad we control the interactions of the user with the program, telling the board the actions that we want to be carried out so that, the software executes the necessary functions to carry out said action launched by the user.